docs(gatsby-plugin-image): Initial migration guide (#29036)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/reference/release-notes/image-migration-guide.md

import { GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    // <Img fixed={data.file.childImageSharp.fixed} />
    <GatsbyImage image={data.file.childImageSharp.gatsbyImageData} />
  )
}
```

## API Changes

In addition to the syntax changes for using gatsby-plugin-image, there are also changes to the API that affect the resolver arguments (and StaticImage).

## fluid

The `fluid` image type has been deprecated in favor of two alternatives.

The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.

The second is a responsive image type called `constrained` that generates smaller images, but nothing larger than the original image source size. Additionally, you can pass `width` and/or `height` to limit the largest image generated to that size.

## maxWidth

> `maxWidth` and `maxHeight` are deprecated for all image types.

Reviewer: Is there something else they should be using instead? Maybe layout...?

Author: Width and height, which is mentioned in the above section and is not valid for full width but will add it here as well

## aspectRatio

`aspectRatio` is a new argument that takes a number (or fraction). If you pass it on its own, it will default to using the source image width, and then adjusting the height to the correct aspect ratio. Alternatively you can pass your own width or height and it will set the other dimension. Passing both `height` and `width` will cause `aspectRatio` to be ignored in favor of the inferred aspect ratio.

## formats

Previously, images generated their own type, e.g. jpg, png, etc. You could also generate webp images when using the appropriate fragment. This is now controlled using the `formats` argument. This field takes an array, `["AUTO", "WEBP"]` by default, `"AVIF"` is also valid.

## options nested inside objects

Previously, transformations like `grayscale` and quality options such as `pngQuality` were top level query arguments. This has changed.

See the [how to guide] for specifics, but `grayscale` now exists within the `transformOptions` argument, and `pngQuality` inside `pngOptions`.

> ## Codemod Instructions

Author: Mostly because I was putting the context in between, but the structure you recommended may remedy that.

Due to the syntax changes, there is a codemod available to update your site to be compatible with `gatsby-plugin-image`. It does not cover every single usage of the existing plugin, but should cover the majority of users. See [codemod assumptions](#codemod-assumptions) section to understand the various decisions it makes.

Note that if you're trying to do a partial migration because some uses of `gatsby-image` are relying on CMS data that isn't compatible yet, you'll want to run the codemod on individual files rather than your whole project.

There are two ways to run the codemod. Most users will want to use the `npx` version.

```shell

> npx gatsby-codemods gatsby-plugin-image <optional-path>

Author: It does not. It’s a separate package.

> npx gatsby-codemods gatsby-plugin-image <optional-path>

Author: But for running with npx you don’t need it installed.

```

Without a path, the codemod will run against all the files in your current directory, so running it in root is recommended. It will ignore `node_modules`, `.cache` and `public` automatically. It will also respect any local Babel configuration in your project. The codemod is designed to run against files with the extensions `.ts, .js, .tsx, .jsx`. If this does not cover your project, or you require other customizations, you'll want to run the codemod using jscodeshift.

> 1. Install jscodeshift

Author: The hope is that most people won’t, correct.

2. All images will generate Webp

The API change to options is not currently codemoded. TODO: should this be?

The codemod will warn the user in a number of different scenarios and point you to the file in question so you can inspect the changes manually.

### Recommended Changes

For images using static query, you should move to use the `StaticImage` component instead. This component takes `src` which can be a remote image URL or a relative path to an image. Make sure you've installed `gatsby-source-filesystem` if you're going to use this component.

The plugin also includes helper functions as the structure of the gatsbyImageData object is considered an implementation detail.

```javascript
import { getImage, getSrc, GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
  const image = getImage(data.file)
  const imagePath = getSrc(data.file)
  return (
    <div>
      <GatsbyImage image={image} alt="please include an alt" />
      <SEO imageSrc={imagePath} />
    </div>
  )
}
```

> ### Unsupported gatsby-image usage

Reviewer: I wonder if this section makes more sense up with the New Syntax / API changes sections?

Also are these considered "breaking changes"? I wonder if that wording is more of an attention grabber?

Author: Breaking depending on the user, but for sure.

If you're looking for other documentation on the new plugin, see:

- How-To Guide: [Using the beta Gatsby Image plugin](/docs/how-to/images-and-media/using-gatsby-plugin-image/)
- Reference Guide: [Gatsby Image plugin](/docs/reference/built-in-components/gatsby-plugin-image/)

## What changed?

### New Syntax

The new plugin requires significant syntax changes. We've provided a [codemod](#codemod-instructions) to help you migrate, but this section will explain the changes.

#### Import change

Previously, `GatsbyImage` was the default export from `gatsby-image`. With `gatsby-plugin-image`, the component is now a named export.

```javascript
// import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"
```

#### GraphQL changes

This is one of the bigger changes. There are no more fragments to use. Instead, things like `layout` and `format` are passed as arguments to the resolver.

This is the previous syntax.

```javascript
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

export const query = graphql`
  {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "images/example.jpg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        fixed {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

> The new syntax looks like this. The fragment is removed in favor of `gatsbyImageData`, which is used for all images. Previous differences - such as `fixed` vs. `fluid`, WebP generation, and placeholder type - are passed as arguments to the resolver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new syntax looks like this. The fragment is removed in favor of `gatsbyImageData`, which is used for all images. Previous configuration options - such as `fixed` vs. `fluid`, WebP generation, and placeholder type - are passed as arguments to the resolver.
```

```javascript
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

export const query = graphql`
  {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "images/example.jpg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        gatsbyImageData(layout: FIXED)
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Other changes to the available argument structure are in the section on [API changes](#api-changes).

#### Component changes

The last change is to the JSX component. The import name is potentially different, and the query result is also different.

```javascript
// import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    // <Img fixed={data.file.childImageSharp.fixed} />
    <GatsbyImage image={data.file.childImageSharp.gatsbyImageData} />
  )
}
```

### API Changes

> In addition to the syntax changes for using `gatsby-plugin-image`, there are also changes to the API that affect the resolver arguments (and `StaticImage`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the syntax changes for using `gatsby-plugin-image`, there are also changes to the API that affect the resolver arguments (and the new `StaticImage` component).
```

#### fluid

The `fluid` image type has been deprecated in favor of two alternatives.

> The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. In most cases you will not need to provide these, as there are default values that work for most sites. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images that span the full width of the screen, and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. In most cases you will not need to provide these, as there are default values that work for most sites. Note that like the old `fluid` layout, `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.
```

> The second is a responsive image type called `constrained` that generates smaller images, but nothing larger than the original image source size. Additionally, you can pass `width` and/or `height` to limit the displayed image to that size. In this case, larger images may be generated for high-density screens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second is a responsive image type called `constrained` that will shrink with its container and generates smaller images, but nothing larger than the original image source size. Additionally, you can pass `width` and/or `height` to limit the displayed image to that size. In this case, larger images may be generated for high-density screens.
```

#### maxWidth

`maxWidth` and `maxHeight` are deprecated for all image types. For `constrained` and `fixed` images, use `width` and `height`. For `fullWidth` images, look at the `breakpoints` option.

#### aspectRatio

`aspectRatio` is a new argument that takes a number (or fraction). If you pass it without also passing in `width` or `height`, it will default to using the source image width and then adjusting the height to the correct aspect ratio. Alternatively, you can pass your own `width` or `height` and it will set the other dimension. Passing both `height` and `width` will cause `aspectRatio` to be ignored in favor of the inferred aspect ratio.

#### formats

> Previously, images generated their own type, e.g. JPG, PNG, etc. You could also generate WebP images when using the appropriate fragment. This is now controlled using the `formats` argument. This field takes an array, `[AUTO, WEBP]` by default, where `AUTO` means the same format as the source image.`AVIF` is now also a valid format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, images generated their own type by default, e.g. JPG, PNG, etc. You could also generate WebP images when using the appropriate fragment. This is now controlled using the `formats` argument. This field takes an array, `[AUTO, WEBP]` by default, where `AUTO` means the same format as the source image.`AVIF` is now also a valid format.
```

#### Options nested inside objects

Previously, transformations like `grayscale` and quality options such as `pngQuality` were top level query arguments. This has changed.

> `grayscale` now exists within the `transformOptions` argument, and `pngQuality` inside `pngOptions`. See the [`gatsby-plugin-image` How-To Guide](/docs/how-to/images-and-media/using-gatsby-plugin-image/) for specifics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`grayscale` now exists within the `transformOptions` argument, and `pngQuality` becomes `quality` inside `pngOptions`. See the [`gatsby-plugin-image` Reference Guide](/docs/reference/built-in-components/gatsby-plugin-image) for specifics.
```

The reference guide is probably a better choice, as it documents all of the options.

---
title: Migrating from gatsby-image to gatsby-plugin-image
---

This document is provided to help users of gatsby-image migrate to using gatsby-plugin-image.

Note that you can use both packages at the same time and may need to in situations where you're using a gatsby-image compatible CMS as a data source and that CMS plugin has not yet updated to a version compatible with the new API.

If you're looking for other documentation on the new plugin, see:

- How to guide: //todo
- Reference guide: //todo

## What changed?

### New Syntax

The new plugin requires significant syntax changes. We've provided a [codemod](#codemod-instructions) to help you migrate, but this section will explain the changes.

#### Import change

> Previously, `GatsbyImage` was the default export from `gatsby-image`. This is no longer the case.

Reviewer 2: Wording is a little confusing. GatsbyImage is still the default export from `gatsby-image`. Might be better to say something thing like "...but the new component is a named export from "gatsby-plugin-image""

```javascript
// import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"
```

#### GraphQL changes

This is one of the bigger changes. There are no more fragments to use, instead things like layout and format are passed as arguments to the resolver.

This is the previous syntax.

```javascript
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

export const query = graphql`
  {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "images/example.jpg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        fixed {
          ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

> The new syntax looks like this. The fragment is removed in favor of `gatsbyImageData` which is used for all images. Previous differences, such as fixed vs. fluid, webP generation and placeholder type are passed as arguments to the resolver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new syntax looks like this. The fragment is removed in favor of `gatsbyImageData` which is used for all images. Previous differences, such as fixed vs. fluid, WebP generation and placeholder type are passed as arguments to the resolver.
```

```javascript
import { graphql } from "gatsby"

export const query = graphql`
  {
    file(relativePath: { eq: "images/example.jpg" }) {
      childImageSharp {
        gatsbyImageData(layout: FIXED)
      }
    }
  }
`
```

There are other changes to the available argument structure in the section on [API changes](#api-changes).

#### Component changes

The last change is to the JSX component. The import name is potentially different and the query result is also different.

```javascript
// import Img from "gatsby-image"
import { GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    // <Img fixed={data.file.childImageSharp.fixed} />
    <GatsbyImage image={data.file.childImageSharp.gatsbyImageData} />
  )
}
```

### API Changes

In addition to the syntax changes for using gatsby-plugin-image, there are also changes to the API that affect the resolver arguments (and StaticImage).

#### fluid

The `fluid` image type has been deprecated in favor of two alternatives.

> The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. In most cases will not need to provide these, as there are default values that work for most sites. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.
```

> The second is a responsive image type called `constrained` that generates smaller images, but nothing larger than the original image source size. Additionally, you can pass `width` and/or `height` to limit the largest image generated to that size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second is a responsive image type called `constrained` that generates smaller images, but nothing larger than the original image source size. Additionally, you can pass `width` and/or `height` to limit the displayed image to that size. In this case, larger images may be generated for high-density screens.
```

#### maxWidth

`maxWidth` and `maxHeight` are deprecated for all image types. For constrained and fixed images, use `width` and `height`. For fullWidth images look at the `breakpoints` option.

#### aspectRatio

`aspectRatio` is a new argument that takes a number (or fraction). If you pass it without also passing in `width` or `height`, it will default to using the source image width, and then adjusting the height to the correct aspect ratio. Alternatively you can pass your own width or height and it will set the other dimension. Passing both `height` and `width` will cause `aspectRatio` to be ignored in favor of the inferred aspect ratio.

#### formats

> Previously, images generated their own type, e.g. jpg, png, etc. You could also generate webp images when using the appropriate fragment. This is now controlled using the `formats` argument. This field takes an array, `["AUTO", "WEBP"]` by default, `"AVIF"` is also valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, images generated their own type, e.g. jpg, png, etc. You could also generate WebP images when using the appropriate fragment. This is now controlled using the `formats` argument. This field takes an array, `[AUTO, WEBP]` by default, where "AUTO" means the same format as the source image.`"AVIF"` is now also a valid format.
```

> #### options nested inside objects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Pptions nested inside objects
```

Previously, transformations like `grayscale` and quality options such as `pngQuality` were top level query arguments. This has changed.

See the [how to guide] for specifics, but `grayscale` now exists within the `transformOptions` argument, and `pngQuality` inside `pngOptions`.

### Breaking changes

Due to the changes to gatsby-plugin-image, there is some functionality that is no longer supported.

> 1. GatsbyImage is no longer a class component and therefore cannot be extended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. GatsbyImage is no longer a class component and therefore cannot be extended. You can use [composition](https://reactjs.org/docs/composition-vs-inheritance.html) instead.
```

2. Fluid images no longer exist, and the fullWidth replacement does not take maxWidth or maxHeight
3. Art direction is no longer supported

> 4. The component no longer takes a decomposed object and the following code is not valid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The component no longer takes a decomposed object and the following code is not valid. You should avoid accessing or changing the contents of the `gatsbyImageData` object, as it is not considered to be a public API, so can be changed without notice.
```

```javascript
// THIS IS NOT VALID
<GatsbyImage image={{ src: example.src, srcSet: ``, width: 100 }} />
```

## How to Migrate

1. Install and update dependencies

   ```shell

>    npm install gatsby-plugin-image gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-transformer-sharp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   npm install gatsby-plugin-image gatsby-plugin-sharp gatsby-transformer-sharp gatsby-source-filesystem
```

Author: I didn't add this because they are migrating from gatsby-image and therefore won't be using StaticImage unless they opt to manually. filesystem isn't necessary for GatsbyImage usage unless I'm missing something?

   ```

2. Configure plugins

   ```javascript:title=gatsby-config.js
   module.exports = {
     plugins: [
       `gatsby-plugin-image`,
       `gatsby-plugin-sharp`,

>        `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
       `gatsby-source-filesystem`,
```

   ```shell
   npx gatsby-codemods gatsby-plugin-image <optional-path>
   ```

   Without an `optional-path`, the codemod will run against all the files in your current directory, so running it in root is recommended. It will ignore `node_modules`, `.cache` and `public` automatically. It will also respect any local Babel configuration in your project. The codemod is designed to run against files with the extensions `.ts, .js, .tsx, .jsx`. If this does not cover your project, or you require other customizations, see the section on using [jscodeshift](#jscodeshift).

   Due to the API changes, the codemod is not a pure 1:1 mapping. There are some changes introduced.

   1. Fluid images will map to either fullWidth or constrained images. This decision is made based on the existence of maxWidth and its value. If maxWidth does not exist, it will be a fullWidth image. If it does, and the maxWidth is less than 1000, it will be a constrained image, otherwise a fullWidth image. fullWidth images do not retain their maxWidth or maxHeight fields, constrained images do, as width and height.

>    2. All images will generate Webp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. All images will generate WebP
```

>    The API change to options is not currently codemoded. TODO: should this be?

Author: removed

>    The API change to options is not currently codemoded. TODO: should this be?

Author: ```suggestion
```

   The codemod will warn the user in a number of different scenarios and point you to the file in question so you can inspect the changes manually.

4. Consider manual changes

   For images using static query, you should move to use the `StaticImage` component instead. This component takes `src` which can be a remote image URL or a relative path to an image. Make sure you've installed `gatsby-source-filesystem` if you're going to use this component.

   ```javascript
   import { StaticImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

   const HomePage = () => (
        <StaticImage src="./example.jpg" alt="please include an alt" />
     )
   }
   ```

>    You may also consider refactoring code to make use of the `getImage` helper function.

Author: We sort of want everyone to use it going forward, but for those migrating it's likely too much manual work to bother with. So I sort of just threw it in there as an FYI.

   ```javascript
   import { getImage, GatsbyImage } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

   const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
     const image = getImage(data.file)
     return (
       <>
         <GatsbyImage image={image} alt="please include an alt" />
       </>
     )
   }
   ```

   Finally, if you were previously using `src`, e.g. for an SEO component, you'll want to use the `getSrc` helper function as the internal structure of the return object has changed.

   ```javascript
   import { getSrc } from "gatsby-plugin-image"

   const HomePage = ({ data }) => {
     const imagePath = getSrc(data.file)
     return (
       <>
         <SEO imageSrc={imagePath} />
       </>
     )
   }
   ```

## jscodeshift

This section is for people who need to run the codemod with extra flags exposed by jscodeshift, e.g. to transform file types other than those with extensions `.js, .ts, .tsx, .jsx`.

> 1. Install jscodeshift

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install `jscodeshift`.
```

```shell
npm install --global jscodeshift
```

> 2. Install the codemods package in your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Install the codemods package in your project.
```

```shell
npm install gatsby-codemods
```

> 3. Run the codemod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the codemod using `jscodeshift`.
```

The `fluid` image type has been deprecated in favor of two alternatives.

> The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. In most cases will not need to provide these, as there are default values that work for most sites. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first is an image type called `fullWidth`. This image is designed to be used for things like hero images and generates image sizes accordingly. Instead of passing something like `maxWidth`, it takes an array called `breakpoints` that will generate images designed for those screen sizes. In most cases you will not need to provide these, as there are default values that work for most sites. Note that `fullWidth` images will expand to fit the width of their container, even if that width is larger than the source image.
```
I think this was my typo!
